you ready okay so we need actually
consensus making it on the agenda we had
to a fork of the agenda we had one of
the website and one which is handed out
so I'm gonna reconcile the fork with my
for consensus rules and why you have the
floor on the distributed word for the
internet and i PF s take it away
thank you thanks for having me so quick
show of hands how many people know what
ipfs is already cool substantial amount
so we like to call the IP fest a
distributed web because it's an effort
to make web sites and web applications
operate in a distributed context another
name for ipfs is also the permanent web
or the merkel web and ipfs is a protocol
to upgrade how the web works but i
profess loves blog chains in general
it's in a sense inspired by the same
tech that a block chain is inspired by
which is the Merkel tree and in a sense
I profess is also a protocol to upgrade
block chains themselves the structure of
this talk is that I'll talk a bit about
the web and why there are some problems
there that we're trying to address some
of the things that have been discussed
in this conference will feature there to
some extent I'll describe what IP FS is
and how its structured I'll talk about
how it relates to block chains and I'll
conclude if there's time we tried out
with our discussion on how the on the
project itself because I think it has a
lot to say about how the internet gets
patched today and how major developments
happen in in general all right so I like
starting with this image because it is a
very clear construction of the different
kinds of networks and this is this comes
from Paul Baran who was one of the
inventor inventors of packet switching
way back this was when AT&T was
switching or like go tell coach we're
switching from switch lines to packet
switching way before the Internet and he
characterized networks as being either
centralized decentralized or distributed
and the major point here is that in a
centralized network
it's easy to think about it because
there's just one thing that does all the
work and a bunch of clients
decentralized networks kind of shard
that and gain some replication or some
resiliency but it's not until you go
completely distributed and peer-to-peer
it's not until you go where the protocol
is the same everywhere and every single
entity runs the same pieces of code or
you know in their case in hardware that
you get get this kind of fabric that you
can break apart in any any kind of way
and the whole thing will still kind of
work and so when you think about the
internet and the protocols that make it
up there's of course agreement that
helps understand how the that help made
and formulate this amazing machine that
we that we have and it's all really
about specs code and computers right we
have a whole bunch of ideas that we
synthesize into agreements into
protocols we turn those into code which
means just taking the ideas in the specs
and massaging them into a program and
then we run the programs this means the
Internet is extremely malleable it means
that anybody can actually come in and
change the internet all they have to do
is come up with a set of ideas that are
good enough implement it and ship it if
it's successful people will adopt it and
people will use it and people will
eventually make it part of the core of
the Internet this is what happened to
Bitcoin this is why we're here today
because somebody one person potentially
more but most likely one person came up
with a bunch of ideas wrote the specs
for it in the code and then shipped it
and the powerful thing here is that when
you think about something like the web
and how difficult it would be to remake
and reshape how the web actually works
it's not actually insane at all to
propose to upgrade the entire web
in fact we're doing it already we have
lots of over between fifty and a hundred
thousand websites already run on ipfs so
that's an interesting all right so the
web and the internet not the same thing
right the Internet is the wires the web
is the applications on top of those
wires in those computers
and when you think about the
applications that we run today on the
web these applications more and more
rule all of our lives I think about how
much data that you generate goes into
some of these web applications not you
know through companies and so on not
through the mail but through directly
web applications like you're using HTTP
to connect to some other computer and
send some data and receive some data
back we're talking about your learning
we're talking about your personal
documents your company documents we're
talking about all of the communications
that you do with the people that most
matter most to you your personal
relationships your work relationships
your overall almost everything right and
in the crazy thing is that the web has
some problems and some pretty critical
issues that we need to address before it
becomes a major major issue and one of
them is recast in this image is that the
web though it started in a distributed
sense and this kind of very peer-to-peer
notion that everyone was going to run
both an HTTP server and a client and be
able to share documents with each other
it's completely centralized now we run
browsers and we consume content from web
servers and we talk to the web servers
through like these little carefully
carefully constructed ways but you as a
web browser don't really get to publish
data into the network it's everything is
mediated by a set of servers which also
means that if you want to download data
you have to go and bring it down from
those servers and it becomes an
extremely inefficient mess right like if
all of you right now started downloading
Gangnam style we could even suppose that
there were seven or eight links in
between we would end up wasting tons of
bandwidth we should calculated based on
the number of views when I made the
slide it's about almost 500 petabytes of
data coming off of Google servers let
alone times 8 for all those links you
know depending times whatever the
diameter of the network is gets worse
when you think about offline use cases
right so if all of us were collaborating
on a Google document or some sort of
application through the web and the
internet fell apart
in our connection to the internet fell
apart it would just cease operating the
web web apps are not designed today to
continue to operate in the offline case
they are not offline first and at the
time that I have been decided as well
there's all these other very critical
pieces of humanity now that just cease
to work if your latency or bandwidth are
above or below certain limits and I
think this is unacceptable I think that
we as engineers need to pick up the game
here
and fix this major problem because it
actually is really critical when you
think about how people are using these
things we tend to design web
applications as this you know thing that
kind of is supposed to work in the best
case and we hand them out to people and
people fall in love with them and they
use them all the time and then we don't
stop to think about what happens when
the model of execution that we thought
about isn't the one that applies in
their daily life we don't stop to think
about when their connectivity breaks and
that dependence that they developed on
the software we created ends up hurting
them quite a bit and you know think
about like all the devices that people
are getting nowadays and you know think
about Internet of Things and so on these
things aren't capable of sharing data
through the web at all they share it
through usually native protocols that
they implement the whole idea of this
amazing idealized web of documents that
we were all going to share and
collaborate through and these webs of
applications don't extend into mobile
and don't extend into the Internet of
Things yet and so this is another
problem like the web is getting kicked
out of these devices and the value that
were brought by integrating everything
together is being stopped from entering
here and so this is another issue that
we need to fix there's of course
information silos when you think about
all of the databases out there of the
big social networks it's really their
data right like it's it's sort of your
data but not really it's like you sort
of have rights on it but they control it
and certainly you can't link it to each
other you can't link it to other pieces
of data on the web in such a way that
will remain
should that website shut down or kick
you out or whatever so that data is the
the whole point of the web was to create
pieces of data that link to each other
and if that all of that is mediated
through specific entities then the
utility and value of your data depends
on those entities I think the people
that know this best are the people of
Egypt when suddenly they woke up one
morning to the fact that their internet
had been completely shut down and their
communications were gone people had been
communicating with each other through
social networks and so on and suddenly
nothing worked and so this is again
another problem when you design a
communications system or a
communications application and you don't
think about what happens when a
government decides to shut down Internet
access for people that's a big problem
of course thankfully people deployed
mesh networks and so on and and they
were managed to get internet access back
but that's not a given
and so applications need to be built to
deal with these kinds of use cases
applications need to run in local area
networks think about okay so that was a
man-made disaster but what about natural
disasters what happens to the web then
what happens to all these communication
infrastructure is when there's
earthquakes floods you know super
volcanoes exploding right I mean what
what do we do then what happens if major
disasters happen to data centers and
suddenly we don't have our data anymore
a company will say sorry we lost it what
are we I mean natural disaster we didn't
account for that and of course a few
companies do and actually are big enough
that they do think about the sort of
thing and they do replicate your data
across a few data centers but it's not
perhaps as replicated or as safe as you
might believe and it's not as safe as
you may want it to be there's also the
problem with book-burning right I mean
we have been criticizing book-burning as
this horrible thing that happens when a
society kind of goes crazy and we think
see book-burning as this the ultimate
sin against humanity we see humanity as
the product of language and technology
and knowledge
those are the things that distinguishes
and yet some societies burn books and we
see this as like a trait of the things
going really really badly and yet today
we burn books all the time we burn books
daily we burn books every day whenever
you move and occupant on the web and and
a URL no longer points to where it used
to whoever had a link to it and now
cannot see it
for them it's a book burned for them
they may not be able to find the
document anymore they may not be able to
access it they may not even have a
search that works fully so the critical
point of the web which was to create
this idealized notion of documents
linked to each other has a problem these
documents are documents on computers and
you can burn those links and you can
burn those computers too so each of some
of the critical critical problems I hope
that I've inspired in you a sense of the
urgency of these matters and why it is
important to upgrade the web so ipfs is
this project to make the web work in the
distributer case work offline first be
more permanent be safer on the to the
user move the contour around in a smart
way and of course be faster because if
you don't make it faster no one's gonna
use it actually this all started by
trying to make it faster and then after
a while all of the other properties kind
of fell out which is cool I profess is a
hyper meteor transport protocol the same
thing as HTTP and the goal is to match
the interface exactly things shouldn't
have to change what applications should
not be different at all you should still
be able to run anything that you run in
HTTP over IP FS with minimal to no
modification some things will be harder
of course like the more complicated web
applications will be more difficult to
to translate but you'll gain some very
interesting properties I profess is the
product of looking back through the last
kind of 25 years of developments since
the web has been created and think about
what the web would have looked like
today if we if those ideas have been
around when Tim berners-lee invented the
web so we've come up with a whole bunch
of good ideas right since the way
invention of the web what would it look
like if those kind of made it in
you might think because we're at the
blockchain worship why isn't that going
there why isn't the blockchain sort of
like part of this well
Bitcoin and the blockchain didn't come
up with Merkel links that was kind of an
older idea so it would have made it but
it was kind of already done and so these
protocols kind of separate out into a
stack the web is of course the great
application platform that we know s FS
was a fantastic protocol that made sure
that we have a secure way to do naming
get gives us the whole notion of version
versioning of data and Merkel links
that's where I I learned about them
they're even older but I learned about
them and GUID and of course BitTorrent
has this amazing way of moving around
content very officially through networks
and the HDS allows us to find contents
and the whole thing is designed so that
it works over any network so this is not
true HTTP HTTP you can make it work over
any transport but in general most web
servers just don't do that they only
work over TCP so if you wanted to run
the web over Bluetooth if you wanted to
run the web over audio or something like
that you have to work really really hard
to do that which means that nobody does
it and so the the stack kind of breaks
down into these sections something we
were calling lit p2p which is a set of
protocols that a whole bunch of other
projects could use and really the core
part which we're nicknaming either the
miracle dog or the miracle web or IP LD
and that is the core part of the
protocol the idea is to come up with one
core format that makes sense for all of
these distributed data structures for
all these distributed systems that want
to interact through the web through the
network and address content with each
other and moving around and so the the
stack here there's a set of protocols in
this stack that you can see that are
ipfs specific but the whole point is
that you could swap them out you could
you could actually use HTTP in exchange
in ipfs you could use other kinds of
transports like web RTC or UTP and so on
and and you could have a a version of IP
offense working entirely over tor and
NTP which is really critical when you
think about preserving privacy and
security
in the web for people in a sense this is
the internet of data IP was such a good
idea because it created this thin waist
around the IP protocol we're doing the
same thing but for data itself so we're
coming up with like the the thin waist
of what it means to define these data
structures that are distributed and it's
not just data it's just data structures
it's you need a way to express data
structures the same way that other
people express them today and if you
have ever used git you know that it's a
Merkel tree or something like it and I
won't explain fully what a Merkel tree
is if you've heard about a blockchain
the whole idea is that you have some
block and you have the hash pointing to
a previous block and that creates this
chain of links that's all that amiracle
link really is and that's the property
that we care about but the point is that
get and a whole bunch of other protocols
have these different trees there's all
these different separate repositories of
information and even bitcoin and
blockchain czar this massive Merkel tree
like this huge chain all along the way
you have this these Merkel links I
professor Merkel forests the whole point
is to bridge together the distinct
different systems by coming up with the
same way of linking between them so you
can think of Bitcoin and gets and
BitTorrent and that and so on as pieces
of the same system as a whole the web
basically right like this is what the
web is supposed to be a way to link
between these things we're just making
it so that these other really cool
systems and important systems can
continue to do what they do best but
still preserve link ability and when you
think about block x today you can also
think about aetherium also emerging as
this other a massive blockchain right
and so you can see this massive merkel
forests that we're helping to create and
again the point is to upgrade the
internet upgrade the web in such a way
where we make the developer's life
easier because ultimately if you make an
improvement and you manage to make it
make some really complicated thing very
easy for developers
you've succeeded in that that's how you
achieve progress on the network if you
come up with a protocol and its really
great but like your implementation isn't
helpful or friendly to developers
thanks for try again it's just not gonna
it's not gonna move the needle it's
gonna have to wait until somebody else
manages to bring that down so I
mentioned that I think a slavs
blockchains and this is because a
blockchain is just a a a merkel link
data structure like any other which
means you can put them entirely on ipfs
and use it as a transport when you think
about a blockchain again you have this
block with some data and you know you
have another block pointing to the
previous one and the key part here is
that there is some link that is a hash
right so the block on the Left when you
hash that you get the value that goes
into that it's included in the block on
the right and this is a merkel link you
get the ability to check integrity of
this huge chain as it's forming through
that property of course blotches have
this additional thing or at least in
particular the Bitcoin blockchain has
this extra thing where you try to do
this proof of work to figure out who to
get a solve a puzzle around the hash
being under a certain target difficulty
and so on but that's not that important
for ipfs the whole point is it is a
transport for miracle data structures
when you look deeper at a blockchain it
is pointing to a set of transactions
right this is these are all still Merkel
links and the transactions that aren't
yet included are sort of in that pool
somewhere and the process of extending
the chain is taking the transactions
that are valid and putting them into
blocks and extending the chain what
happens when you when you want to
include you know data on the chain that
doesn't fit we've talked this entire
conference about including things like
contracts and Records and important
documents and so on in the blockchain
but you can't actually put it in there
through a transaction because you don't
want every single node ever to have to
to to store it so you do the same thing
that the blockchain does and you put a
hash to it as a link right but these
these this content which by the way is
starting to be all sorts of stuff
there's like legal records contracts
code you
I've seen email over bitcoin pretty much
anything right what but what happens
with those links you can't click on a
link like that there's just some hash
right so now you have to take that hash
and figure out what other system it
belongs to and so and by the way it's
only these files are getting huge like
you have seen some massive archives hash
in there because you want a timestamp
important details that the problem
though is how do you make sure that all
of the content remains addressable if
you were to put a link to http there
then you don't get any of the integrity
that you wanted because of course
anybody could change the server or
something and the file would be
different and again to review HTTP for
people that don't recall how it works
you you have this the Internet you have
a whole bunch of servers and if you want
a specific file you have to talk to a
specific server to get it back or a
specific set of servers even if a whole
bunch of other computers in the network
have it doesn't matter you have to go to
talk to a specific one and there's
there's a reason for this it made sense
at the time
but maybe not anymore so of course if
you wanna put in the blockchain you
don't do that you put the hash of the
content so why don't we build a system
to just address everything by hash and
yes there are some already but the point
is why don't we make the web itself work
this way and this is what I profess is
about making the web itself work with a
hash based file system and so instead of
this picture you get a picture where any
note that has the content can distribute
the content to you because again you
need no trust it's the same thing as you
get and baturin the same thing you're
getting get and the same thing you get
in Bitcoin block chains and so on well
the benefit is that it's a file system
right like we're talking about it's good
to store rock records and documents and
directories and so on and the resolution
works exactly as you would expect it to
work in a file system the same way that
you would expect it to work in the web
you have you can have directories that
point to other objects and so on this is
exactly what get data and why it became
so so successful these are of course
miracle links and if people kind of
think you know what it did and why it
was successful the whole idea was that
there was a previous version control
called sen and before that they were CVS
and so on and the model was that it was
centralized right you had one server
maintaining your versions and everyone
would talk to that one server and so to
make any update you would have to ship
that server that updated to that server
this was not very robust or resilient if
you cut any one of the links the hope
you you couldn't talk to it so you
couldn't work you couldn't make any
update if the central server went down
of course everything fell apart its
improvement was to make the entire thing
distributed to make it offline first
this is the same thing that Bitcoin did
in a sense any node in this network is
capable of maintaining its own record of
the versions and talk to each other so
if part of the network goes down doesn't
matter anybody can still work and you
will sync back when you get together if
the server's go down doesn't matter at
all you can still work and talk to each
other this is what I profess is doing to
the entire web we're moving the web apps
and websites and documents and archives
and everything that you can touch on the
web to work this way it's what I call
hyper speed because it's really fast if
you download something and you have it
locally and you have the hash you never
have to download it again you beat the
biggest problem which is the speed of
light and so it allows you to think very
differently about how to move content
through the network and it allows you to
move things preemptively to have caches
that are untrusted and so on so ipfs is
creating this massive mesh this
authenticated mesh where any piece of
data can point to any other piece of
data through a merkel link and the
critical thing here is that you're not
pointing to us to an HTTP server which
might change you're pointing with the
cryptographic hash which means you know
exactly what piece of document you were
pointing to it's what everyone here
wants out of the block chain or you want
some of the things that people want out
of a blockchain right as I've listened
to people talk throughout the blockchain
workshop many people that are interested
in block chains not from a you know
smart contra sense but from a as a way
to store data it's the same thing it's
if you get the same kind of properties
here and so this is this is a a
different way of
thinking about how to store information
you can you the important property of
the blockchain is that it's timestamps
right and so you can think of putting
data on ipfs and taking the the route
hashes from ipfs and then time stamping
them into the blockchain and vice-versa
you could take the blockchain itself and
put all of it on ipfs in fact there's
people that are starting to build block
chains that are designed to be entirely
on IP of us because it makes people's
life easier like you don't have to work
do all this peer-to-peer stuff that is
difficult so when you think about
websites today they work kind of like
this right there's a whole bunch of
servers that talk to each other and of
course there's clients too and everybody
has a big database and the data is kind
of like within the databases and that's
it and you talk to each other over these
wires but the problem is that all of
that data is really interlinked but
those links again refer to servers in
the a confessed model it's about
flipping that on its head and saying let
the data connect to each other and so on
and of course
if anybody remembers linked data and the
Semantic Web this is the same idea right
like let data connect to each other the
one issue though is that the link data
was still dependent on those links is
still dependent on on those servers it's
still addressed by mostly not all link
data is address this way but the large
majority of link data is addressed by by
those locations and so it makes it
extremely difficult to work with because
those links can go down you don't want
to query like 20 servers at once and so
on what you really want is something
like it or the blockchain where you can
take entire portions of data move them
to one location even completely go
offline and still have everything in
operation and so yeah it's it's about D
prioritizing the the servers and oh and
the web sites and really thinking just
about the data and you know when you
think about web application data you
could think about this huge graph of
content and instead of making you're
designing your web application as
content stored in some like model in a
database through sequel you make a
merkel object where the links that
you're linking between those objects and
each other are Merkel links which allows
you to get all of these other properties
all of the cryptographic verification
and so on and you can sign all of the
stuff as well and then get even an extra
integrity check which is you can see who
generated this stuff this is amazingly
useful if you want to create any kind of
distributed website where users are
creating the content and moving it
around for you and you can do a force
like legal records this way you can have
a contract that's Merkel linked by a
signature and then the signed content
becomes like pointers to those
signatures and like a legal agreement or
like that you know my legal agreements
could be just pointing to a whole bunch
of signed contracts and then I could
take that route and just time stamp it
into the Bitcoin blockchain every once
in a while and keep a record that way
and so it's this massive mesh that it's
it's really all about it's about
creating this this distributed network
where data can link to each other and
this with Merkel links and you can move
it around pretty easily it turns out
though to be a lot of pretty much like
the barrier to this is making new ways
of like basically matching all the
interfaces that people are expecting out
of how you make websites and web
applications but make it a whole work
with this kind of distributed effort
cool all right so hopefully that
explains what I profess is about let me
check
time and see how doing oh it's super
late I'll take a couple minutes to tell
you about the project itself because I
think it's important so this started
because I wanted to build a a virgin
data set package manager so I wanted to
make it easier for scientists to move
around data and simultaneously I also
wanted to make a like some sort of
storage layer for some sort of like
distributed agents I could talk to each
other but that was kind of like a
secondary goal and as I got into into
merging get and BitTorrent I realized so
you could actually just sink in and
restructure how the the data structures
worked make a better protocol and use
that instead and as I started thinking
more and more about it it became clear
that this had vast implications for the
web itself and it's only sort of after
the fact that this became clear the
interesting sort of crossover with
blockchains is that it can serve both as
a way
to give links to all the blocks out
there and as a way to put the block
chains on there itself so it makes
implementations easier but it also makes
it easy to talk between block chains
right so if you have a link from a
Bitcoin transaction into an aetherium
transaction you can make that through IP
FS and it would be way easier because
the same sort of links right it's again
about creating this thin waist where
everyone can have one way of formatting
data and if we follow that one thing
then everything can can talk to each
other again
right like let's not break the web and
so this this is of course all open
source as all important protocols should
be and it's you know there's a huge
community now behind this I sort of
started it but even the ideas came
before me like this is kind of the
product of decades of and thinking and
engineering from a lot of really good
people my task has been mostly
integrating ideas into producing a good
interface that matches all of the pieces
and there's a again a large community on
it already there's tons of users lots
hundreds of contributors and also quite
a bit of traction already so we we
describe our project as an alpha and yet
people are using in production all over
the place
there's the like I said 50 to 100
thousand websites on it there's tons of
different block chain or Bitcoin or
aetherium related companies that are
using it it recently was shipped in a
very large provider of like network that
attached storage devices with a massive
install base so that'll be interesting
when that comes online it's it's gaining
a lot of traction and moving really
quickly which is great but at the same
time it's it's kind of important too so
to keep to kind of like step back and
think about how this project is moving
forward and sale a little bit a couple
of sameness about how these what what
made it successful where so many other
projects that try to do this in the past
weren't able to garner a lot of interest
I think it's critical for those people
of you who might want to create
different protocols and get other people
to
contribute and help push them it is it
is critical to think through the whole
thing and think about how it's going to
interface with every other project out
there and every single thing that people
touch and if you can generalize and
generalize in generalize and like just
do this over and over and over again you
end up with something that's very very
small and very simple with all these
pieces that will make it useable to
other people but then you'll have
something that actually works and that
people can get behind so I think so many
times people don't do this and it's and
I started a company to build this out
because I wanted to have like an
independent group and I think this is
another another thing that's important
about how these protocols emerged when
you think about Bitcoin it was a person
anonymous put it out there what you
think about get it was built by the
kernel hackers not a company when you
think about BitTorrent it was built a
one individual and so on critical pieces
of the infrastructure of the network are
emerging from all sorts of random places
because really good ideas come about
people have the stomach to carry them
out and build them and deploy them but
what I want to build is a a lab where
it's completely open-source and people
can come together and work on things no
matter what organization they're part of
and sort of like a like a strong arm for
the IETF a group that can take the
moment to look at the whole internet
stack think about what's missing what
would be really important to add and
then just do it so that's what's what
the effort behind ipfs is becoming it's
about creating a lab like this a we call
it the protocol lab it's kind of like
Tesla meeting in the the protocol stack
but if you go back to this slide about
specs code on computers
the problem that we have today is that
so much research exists and it's great I
mean it's amazing that there is so much
research there's so many good ideas but
the issue that I see often is that I can
even Mia it's like 25 years I had it's
light years ahead we it's like alien
technology to us to like us mere mortals
and the issue is that so much what we're
talking about today has been solved
already by academics decades ago and why
are we not seeing those results today
and it's because this funnel is broken
it's because when we go from research to
development there's a huge gap most
academics come up with really great
ideas and move on to the next paper but
very few people actually take the time
to implement those pieces of ideas into
a system then beyond developing
something from going to development to
deployment there's a huge again a huge
filter because very few things actually
are developed well enough to be good
engineering systems that people can
actually use and will actually use and
beyond that if even after you develop
something even after you deploy it if
you don't think very carefully about how
to launch it if you don't think very
carefully about how to get people to
Kindle the fire of using it it just
won't happen at all and you'll die again
in the dirt and so by the time it gets
to what people use it's been filtered so
many times by these very huge
probabilities that we get almost nothing
and so I urge all of you who kind of
presented and talked about problems that
have you know technical questions to
read more literature because it is it is
just filled with the answers that you're
seeking it's just that it just hasn't
been deployed in such a way that you can
use and so focus on that and this is
kind of like what I'm building protocol
labs to be a research and development
and deployment outfit that can fix this
filter to some degree so anyway this is
the IP FS projects how it relates to
block chains and so on thank you thank
you
you just stay there for a fro for a
moment
I have some tech to introduce you that
might help with that cap um I do want to
enable some time for questions maybe
have one question okay someone who
hasn't asked have you both asked you
haven't asked
sorry MC privilege and my hammer I
haven't looked I have like only played
around a little bit with ipfs is a very
interesting project my question is it
looks very good for like static content
what about dynamic conferences if I have
like a Twitter of like if I go to
Twitter and Twitter with generates on
the fly my news feed and yeah yeah so so
I don't know the content yeah we can't
know the hash beforehand so I'll
describe it in terms of get first and
maybe that'll make sense it has a whole
bunch of static content inside and a
branch pointer just moves to do
mutability that didn't make sense so you
have this massive amount of static
content but what you need to do to get
mutability is that you need a pointer
that can move somewhere that it's not an
immutable content pointer it's a mutable
pointer and we get that with naming we
call them names yes I get branches but
it's we call them names and so in the if
we go back to this like slide way back
about the links here we go you see there
that I have ipfs slash a hash that is a
hash based on the content of the file
then above it is the thing called / IP
NS for namespace there is a DNS name
right example.com what that means is
that there is a DNS record out there
that has the latest version that has aid
a tax record pointing to that content of
course that's not the best solution you
don't want to wait for DNS resolution to
get updates right you want it to be less
than a second
ideally less than milliseconds sometimes
and you get that through another layer
which I don't show here but that's where
s FS naming comes in a name or a branch
in in ipfs just means the hash of a
public key so if you have a private key
that means you can create a pointer to
some content
PFS and publisher record through some
system and people can trust that name so
the name is ugly right it's a huge hash
it's not a nice pre name but people can
trust that name because it's
authenticated right it's like the name
itself is the hash of a public key from
that they fetch the public key and they
can verify that you sign the record
correctly what's it like an onion you
are oh yeah exactly
actually yeah so as if his naming is all
over the place it's and it's an onion
it's in Farina new net taco FS there's
just tons of things that use it and
these are by the way other projects that
are related to ipfs and have been
thinking about the same sort of social
about yes so definitely check those out
and yeah if there's anything that we
should do better please come tell us
because we want to make the best thing
possible so for those you Merkle DAGs
knew you are glass you've got the next
20 years you can play around this is
absolutely absolutely awesome thank you
so put it together for Juan thank you so
much